safedao.md, before:

---
title: 🔰 SafeDAO
tags: safe
description: Digital ownership for everyone
image: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_banners/8467082/1674046807/1500x500
---

<h1 style="text-align: center;">🔰 SafeDAO</h1>

# About

#### Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF) docs

- [SafeDAO Governance Hub](https://safe-global.notion.site/SafeDAO-Governance-Hub-6a7368cc72554c8d94b05fcc47f246d5)

#### Mission

- Bring digital ownership to everyone by building a universal and open smart contract standard for custody of digital assets, data, and identity with the [Safe](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IiCJ2WESRO23kNCxWRKTz3nVysqOBuxnmuIVTL9JK04/edit#heading=h.e63zvmii9ax5) ecosystem.
- [Constitution](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/discussion-safedao-constitution/1749/1) (Draft 2023-01-05)

#### Community

- Twitter: [@safe](https://twitter.com/safe) and [@safegovernance](https://twitter.com/safegovernance)
- Forum: [forum.gnosis-safe.io](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io)
- Safe Discord: [discord.com/invite/TwzFWhDSrW](https://discord.com/invite/TwzFWhDSrW)
- Blog: [safe.mirror.xyz](https://safe.mirror.xyz)


# Governance

**Mission** – Coordinate on initiatives that help further the goals of the Safe ecosystem.

## Proposals

- Safe Ecosystem Proposal (SEP)
- Creating a Snapshot proposal requires 20,000 SAFE tokens
- [[HOW TO] SafeDAO Governance Process](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/how-to-safedao-governance-process/846)
- [[Template] Safe Ecosystem Proposal Template](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/template-safe-ecosystem-proposal-template/845)

## Claim SAFE tokens

- Claim (Onchain transaction): [app.safe.global](https://app.safe.global) > Connect account (Top-right) > Select account (Left navigation menu) > *Your voting power* > Select *Delegating to* > Select *Claim Safe Tokens*
    - Claim vested tokens as they become available
 - If [delegating](#Delegate): Save your delegates ETH address on the *Choose a delegate* step to see how the delegate votes on future proposals.

## Vote

- Vote: [snapshot.org/#/safe.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/safe.eth)
    - Start/end dates displayed are in local time depending on the machine's settings.
    - [DAO settings](https://snapshot.org/#/safe.eth/settings): Voting strategies, quorum, and etc.
- Total voting power: Includes vested and unclaimed and unvested tokens.
    - There's no need to claim new tokens that have vested in order to increase voting power.
- Original holder can override a [delegate](#Delegate) by voting on a proposal
    - Default of [Snapshot voting](https://hackmd.io/@openinfo/daos#Snapshot-voting)
    - Order of votes doesn't matter
    - *See [SafeDAO Governance Hub](https://safe-global.notion.site/SafeDAO-Governance-Hub-6a7368cc72554c8d94b05fcc47f246d5) > [Delegation](https://safe-global.notion.site/Delegation-ce8deecb409349d2a2785b505b9d5e86)*
- Temperature check: [snapshot.org/#/safegov.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/safegov.eth)


## Incorporation

*SafeDAO and Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF) are separate entities.*

### Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF)

- About
    - SEF is a [Swiss non-profit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tSayb53cQJZd8uldNmtQv_R5PiKrU_6JfFRoL36xgR4/edit#heading=h.wkghaki8zg6k)
    - Incorporation filing: [Safe Ökosystem Stiftung](https://stiftungen.stiftungschweiz.ch/organisation/safe-oekosystem-stiftung)
    - A Swiss Foundation acts similar to a smart contract in that the rules to follow must be clearly defined or else liable under Swiss law.
- Committees
    - The foundation can create community-elected committees, e.g. Grants
    - The foundation's board has veto power.
- Personal liabilities
    - Board members have full personal liability.
    - Regular participating members have limited personal liability.

### Future potential SafeDAO <> SEF relationship

- SafeDAO becomes a primary governance body of SEF
    - Potentially formed through a foundation committee composed of SafeDAO members.
    - Governance, e.g. Electing the board
    - Mandates
    - Budgets
    - Guidelines/processes
- Timeline: Can take 1-2 years

### Resources

- [GIP-2: SAFE Token Model](https://forum.gnosis.io/t/gip-2-safe-token-model/691) _on GnosisDAO proposal_
- [Safe Foundation, proposed steward of the Gnosis Safe ecosystem, plans to raise $100 million](https://www.theblock.co/post/134253/safe-foundation-proposed-steward-of-the-gnosis-safe-ecosystem-plans-to-raise-100-million) *by The Block 2022-02-15*


## Delegate

### About

- Delegate voting power of SAFE tokens to someone else
- Can only delegate to one person
- Delegation is editable

### Delegate

- [snapshot.org/#/delegate/safe.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/delegate/safe.eth): Connect to Safe with the WalletConnect app
- [Delegates list](https://github.com/safe-global/claiming-app-data/blob/main/guardians/assets/guardians.csv)
- Check Safe's current delegate
    - App: *[app.safe.global](https://app.safe.global)* > *Home view* > *Governance* >  *Your voting power* card > *Delegated to* {*Your delegate*}
    - URL: `app.safe.global/eth:{your-address-here}/home`

### View votes

- [SAFE Governance Stats](https://app.flipsidecrypto.com/dashboard/safe-governance-stats-pQHQGV)
    - [Forum post](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/safedao-governance-dashboard/1946/6)
    - Built *by [flipsidecrypto](https://twitter.com/flipsidecrypto)*
    - Issue: [Cannot find address or ENS name in the dashboard 2022-12-18](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/safedao-governance-dashboard/1946/8?u=adamhurwitz.eth)
- See specific snapshot, e.g. [SEP #1: SafeDAO Participation Agreement](https://snapshot.org/#/safe.eth/proposal/0x87c8091b5edc2cb489cc0f4231c8b675dbb1b11aa42c260c81ead9cf312f193f) > *Votes* section > Search for your delegates ENS domain or ETH address

# Safe Grants Program (SGP)

## About

- Mission
    - Build a community of contributors through funding ideas, projects, and integrations
    - Not for driving SAFE token utility (Structure in-progress by the SafeDAO)
- Funding: $1mm total
    - Funded by the [Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF)](#Safe-Ecosystem-Foundation-SEF)
- Forum
    - [[Discussion] Safe Grants Program (SGP)](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/discussion-safe-grants-program-sgp/3213) *2023-04-12*

## Wave 1

### About

- Funding: $500k
    - Paid in fiat or USDC
    - Potential for SAFE payments post-transferability
- Duration: 6 months
    - 24 weeks
        - 18 weeks operations
        - 6 weeks review
- Grants organized by categories

### Categories

- Build (~40% fund allocation)
- Growth (~30% fund allocation)
- Research (~20% fund allocation)
- Govern (~10% fund allocation)

### Applications

#### Community reviewers on the SGP council

- 3 roles available
- Time commitment: 10 hours per week
- Compensation
    - $2,000 USDC per month
    - SAFE token retroactive grant to be determined 
- Resources
    - [Grants Council Elections](https://safe-global.notion.site/Grants-Council-Elections-b4d13088ed694c12b4b179094a021010)
        - Dates timeline: *Voting and Elections Information*
    - [Candidate Proposal Instructions](https://safe-global.notion.site/Candidate-Proposal-Instructions-52920f9d37c049fea2568f13e3e99a15)
    - [Expression of Interest to Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF)](https://notionforms.io/forms/grants-council-applications-copr3m)
    - [Safe Grants Council Nominations](https://forum.safe.global/t/safe-grants-council-nominations/3419/1) *2023-05-25*

#### Grants

- Number of grants: ~30
- Compensation
    - Grant size: $5-50k
    - SAFE token retroactive grant to be determined 
    - Up-front payments
        - May request an initial amount.
        - Cannot exceed 20% of the total requested amount (Unless the grant is < 3 months)
- Published on the SafeDAO forum
- Timelines
    - Reviewed weekly
    - Approved monthly
    - Deliverable timeframe: 4 months
    - Review and next cycle planning: 2 months
- Milestones required
    - Tracks the progress of the grant
    - *Benchmark* milestones: Progress
    - *Critical* milestones: Outcomes

<p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic">This is not financial, technical, or legal advice. Consult professionals and do your own research.</p>

<style>
    .markdown-body h1 {
        font-weight: 700;
        font-size: 3.4rem;
    }
    .markdown-body {
        font-size: 1.8rem;
    }
    .markdown-body a:link {
        color: #3C8974
    }
    .markdown-body a:hover {
        color: #225347 
    }
    .markdown-body a:active {
        color: #225347
    }
</style>

Commit message:

Feature: Vote with Safe account

safedao.md, after:

---
title: 🔰 SafeDAO
tags: safe
description: Digital ownership for everyone
image: https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_banners/8467082/1674046807/1500x500
---

<h1 style="text-align: center;">🔰 SafeDAO</h1>

# About

#### Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF) docs

- [SafeDAO Governance Hub](https://safe-global.notion.site/SafeDAO-Governance-Hub-6a7368cc72554c8d94b05fcc47f246d5)

#### Mission

- Bring digital ownership to everyone by building a universal and open smart contract standard for custody of digital assets, data, and identity with the [Safe](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IiCJ2WESRO23kNCxWRKTz3nVysqOBuxnmuIVTL9JK04/edit#heading=h.e63zvmii9ax5) ecosystem.
- [Constitution](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/discussion-safedao-constitution/1749/1) (Draft 2023-01-05)

#### Community

- Twitter: [@safe](https://twitter.com/safe) and [@safegovernance](https://twitter.com/safegovernance)
- Forum: [forum.gnosis-safe.io](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io)
- Safe Discord: [discord.com/invite/TwzFWhDSrW](https://discord.com/invite/TwzFWhDSrW)
- Blog: [safe.mirror.xyz](https://safe.mirror.xyz)


# Governance

**Mission** – Coordinate on initiatives that help further the goals of the Safe ecosystem.

## Proposals

- Safe Ecosystem Proposal (SEP)
- Creating a Snapshot proposal requires 20,000 SAFE tokens
- [[HOW TO] SafeDAO Governance Process](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/how-to-safedao-governance-process/846)
- [[Template] Safe Ecosystem Proposal Template](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/template-safe-ecosystem-proposal-template/845)

## Claim SAFE tokens

- Claim (Onchain transaction): [app.safe.global](https://app.safe.global) > Connect account (Top-right) > Select account (Left navigation menu) > *Your voting power* > Select *Delegating to* > Select *Claim Safe Tokens*
    - Claim vested tokens as they become available
 - If [delegating](#Delegate): Save your delegates ETH address on the *Choose a delegate* step to see how the delegate votes on future proposals.

## Vote

- Sites
    - [snapshot.org/#/safe.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/safe.eth)
    - [snapshot.org/#/grants.safe.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/grants.safe.eth)
- About
    - Start/end dates displayed are in local time depending on the machine's settings.
    - [DAO settings](https://snapshot.org/#/safe.eth/settings): Voting strategies, quorum, and etc.
- Voting with a Safe account
    1. Vote directly from the Safe app: [app.safe.global](https://app.safe.global)
    2. Go to *Apps* > *Snapshot* > Vote with your Safe account.
    3. Approve the required threshold for your Safe account.
- Total voting power: Includes vested and unclaimed and unvested tokens.
    - There's no need to claim new tokens that have vested in order to increase voting power.
- Original holder can override a [delegate](#Delegate) by voting on a proposal
    - Default of [Snapshot voting](https://hackmd.io/@openinfo/daos#Snapshot-voting)
    - Order of votes doesn't matter
    - *See [SafeDAO Governance Hub](https://safe-global.notion.site/SafeDAO-Governance-Hub-6a7368cc72554c8d94b05fcc47f246d5) > [Delegation](https://safe-global.notion.site/Delegation-ce8deecb409349d2a2785b505b9d5e86)*
- Temperature check: [snapshot.org/#/safegov.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/safegov.eth)


## Incorporation

*SafeDAO and Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF) are separate entities.*

### Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF)

- About
    - SEF is a [Swiss non-profit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tSayb53cQJZd8uldNmtQv_R5PiKrU_6JfFRoL36xgR4/edit#heading=h.wkghaki8zg6k)
    - Incorporation filing: [Safe Ökosystem Stiftung](https://stiftungen.stiftungschweiz.ch/organisation/safe-oekosystem-stiftung)
    - A Swiss Foundation acts similar to a smart contract in that the rules to follow must be clearly defined or else liable under Swiss law.
- Committees
    - The foundation can create community-elected committees, e.g. Grants
    - The foundation's board has veto power.
- Personal liabilities
    - Board members have full personal liability.
    - Regular participating members have limited personal liability.

### Future potential SafeDAO <> SEF relationship

- SafeDAO becomes a primary governance body of SEF
    - Potentially formed through a foundation committee composed of SafeDAO members.
    - Governance, e.g. Electing the board
    - Mandates
    - Budgets
    - Guidelines/processes
- Timeline: Can take 1-2 years

### Resources

- [GIP-2: SAFE Token Model](https://forum.gnosis.io/t/gip-2-safe-token-model/691) _on GnosisDAO proposal_
- [Safe Foundation, proposed steward of the Gnosis Safe ecosystem, plans to raise $100 million](https://www.theblock.co/post/134253/safe-foundation-proposed-steward-of-the-gnosis-safe-ecosystem-plans-to-raise-100-million) *by The Block 2022-02-15*


## Delegate

### About

- Delegate voting power of SAFE tokens to someone else
- Can only delegate to one person
- Delegation is editable

### Delegate

- [snapshot.org/#/delegate/safe.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/delegate/safe.eth): Connect to Safe with the WalletConnect app
- [Delegates list](https://github.com/safe-global/claiming-app-data/blob/main/guardians/assets/guardians.csv)
- Check Safe's current delegate
    - App: *[app.safe.global](https://app.safe.global)* > *Home view* > *Governance* >  *Your voting power* card > *Delegated to* {*Your delegate*}
    - URL: `app.safe.global/eth:{your-address-here}/home`

### View votes

- [SAFE Governance Stats](https://app.flipsidecrypto.com/dashboard/safe-governance-stats-pQHQGV)
    - [Forum post](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/safedao-governance-dashboard/1946/6)
    - Built *by [flipsidecrypto](https://twitter.com/flipsidecrypto)*
    - Issue: [Cannot find address or ENS name in the dashboard 2022-12-18](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/safedao-governance-dashboard/1946/8?u=adamhurwitz.eth)
- See specific snapshot, e.g. [SEP #1: SafeDAO Participation Agreement](https://snapshot.org/#/safe.eth/proposal/0x87c8091b5edc2cb489cc0f4231c8b675dbb1b11aa42c260c81ead9cf312f193f) > *Votes* section > Search for your delegates ENS domain or ETH address

# Safe Grants Program (SGP)

## About

- Mission
    - Build a community of contributors through funding ideas, projects, and integrations
    - Not for driving SAFE token utility (Structure in-progress by the SafeDAO)
- Funding: $1mm total
    - Funded by the [Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF)](#Safe-Ecosystem-Foundation-SEF)
- Forum
    - [[Discussion] Safe Grants Program (SGP)](https://forum.gnosis-safe.io/t/discussion-safe-grants-program-sgp/3213) *2023-04-12*

## Wave 1

### About

- Funding: $500k
    - Paid in fiat or USDC
    - Potential for SAFE payments post-transferability
- Duration: 6 months
    - 24 weeks
        - 18 weeks operations
        - 6 weeks review
- Grants organized by categories

### Categories

- Build (~40% fund allocation)
- Growth (~30% fund allocation)
- Research (~20% fund allocation)
- Govern (~10% fund allocation)

### Applications

#### Community reviewers on the SGP council

- 3 roles available
- Time commitment: 10 hours per week
- Compensation
    - $2,000 USDC per month
    - SAFE token retroactive grant to be determined 
- Resources
    - [Grants Council Elections](https://safe-global.notion.site/Grants-Council-Elections-b4d13088ed694c12b4b179094a021010)
        - Dates timeline: *Voting and Elections Information*
    - [Candidate Proposal Instructions](https://safe-global.notion.site/Candidate-Proposal-Instructions-52920f9d37c049fea2568f13e3e99a15)
    - [Expression of Interest to Safe Ecosystem Foundation (SEF)](https://notionforms.io/forms/grants-council-applications-copr3m)
    - [Safe Grants Council Nominations](https://forum.safe.global/t/safe-grants-council-nominations/3419/1) *2023-05-25*

#### Grants

- Number of grants: ~30
- Compensation
    - Grant size: $5-50k
    - SAFE token retroactive grant to be determined 
    - Up-front payments
        - May request an initial amount.
        - Cannot exceed 20% of the total requested amount (Unless the grant is < 3 months)
- Published on the SafeDAO forum
- Timelines
    - Reviewed weekly
    - Approved monthly
    - Deliverable timeframe: 4 months
    - Review and next cycle planning: 2 months
- Milestones required
    - Tracks the progress of the grant
    - *Benchmark* milestones: Progress
    - *Critical* milestones: Outcomes

<p style="text-align: center; font-style: italic">This is not financial, technical, or legal advice. Consult professionals and do your own research.</p>

<style>
    .markdown-body h1 {
        font-weight: 700;
        font-size: 3.4rem;
    }
    .markdown-body {
        font-size: 1.8rem;
    }
    .markdown-body a:link {
        color: #3C8974
    }
    .markdown-body a:hover {
        color: #225347 
    }
    .markdown-body a:active {
        color: #225347
    }
</style>
